Changelog 122 (#84)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2020-05-14-changelog-122.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #122"

> date: 2020-05-14 20:05:59 +0300

Reviewer: Don't forget to change date

   <img src="/assets/posts/changelog-122/5195.png" alt="blacklisting screenshot" width="700px"/>

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5304 -->
* Improve `Extract enum variant` intention: now `derive` and `repr`
 attributes are copied from the parent enum to the generated struct (by [@Kobzol])

   {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-122/5304" w="700px" %}

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5291 -->
* Also, `Extract enum variant` is now available from `Refactor | Extract`
  and `Refactor | Refactor This` menus (by [@Kobzol])

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5336 -->
* Support `include!` macro calls generated by another macro call.
  Note, full support (name resolution and completion for code from including file in included
  one and correct module hierarchy recognition, i.e. absence of false positive "File is not
  included in module tree" editor notification), is available only when the new macro expansion
  engine is enabled (You can enable it in
  `File | Settings | Languages & Frameworks | Rust | Expand Declarative macros`).

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5270 -->

> * Add support for pretty printing `NonZero` numbers in the debugger (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Show value of `NonZero*` numbers in the debugger (by [@Kobzol])
```

* Improve "complete current statement" (<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+Enter</kbd>) action:
  * don't add new line after `;` completion
  * insert empty line on empty line

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5317 -->
* "Implement Members" and "Generate Construct" actions now take into account all trait bounds of trait object types

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5312 -->
* Omit unchanged default type parameters of parameters in "Extract Function" refactoring (by [@Kobzol])

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5296 -->
* Fix "find usages" action:
  * take into account files added to the project by `include!()` macro
  * correctly find reference to `pub(crate)` items declared in crate root

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5293 -->
* Fix the [issue](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-238958) with non-rust directory renaming.
  Previously, our plugin sometimes broke "rename" refactoring applied to a directory in non-rust projects.

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5292 -->
* Fix the [issue](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/5285)

>   with "Surround With Unsafe Fix" quick fix (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  with `Surround with unsafe block` quick fix (by [@Kobzol])
```

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5288 -->

> * Fix the [`exception`](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/5287)
>   while building project via build button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do not throw [`exception`](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/5287)
  while building a project via `Build` action
```

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5261 -->

> * Properly do "Invalidate caches & Restart"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Properly do `Invalidate caches & Restart` action
```

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5155 -->

> * Fix one "Use of moved value" [false-positive](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/5013)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix `Use of moved value` [false-positive](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/5013) error
```

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5345 -->
* Fix [`IndexNotReadyException`](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/5123) while completion
  during indexing

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5342 -->
* Fix possible [`java.lang.AssertionError`](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5342) exception during indexing

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5341 -->
* Fetch cargo metadata even with compilation error.

>   Previously, if `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` feature was enabled and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Previously, if `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` experimental feature was enabled and
```

        <img src="/assets/posts/changelog-122/5276.png" alt="chained method calls screenshot" width="646px"/>

    <!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5197 -->
    * Show type hints for type placeholders `_` (by [@avrong])

        <img src="/assets/posts/changelog-122/5197.png" alt="type hints for type placeholders screenshot" width="510px"/>

    <!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5195 -->
    * Support blacklisting for inlay parameter hints. You can find these settings in
      `Settings | Editor | Inlay Hints | Rust | Parameter hints | Blacklist...` (by [@Kobzol])

  <br/>
  If you don't like one of our new inlay hints, you can disable it in
  `Settings | Editor | Inlay Hints | Rust`.

* Refactorings improvements:
    <!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/4985 -->
    * Provide `Introduce Constant` refactoring.
      You can invoke it via `Refactor | Extract | Constant` or <kbd>Ctrl+Alt+C</kbd> (by [@Kobzol])

        {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-122/4985" w="700px" %}

    <!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5304 -->

>     * Improve `Extract enum variant` refactoring. Now `derive` and `repr`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Improve `Extract Enum Variant` refactoring. Now `derive` and `repr`
```

* Take into account `extern` keyword by `Implement members` quick fix (by [@t-kameyama])

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5335 -->
* Fix false-positive `E0603 module is private` if the module is declared multiple times (e.g. in `lib.rs` and `main.rs`)

* `Go To Super` action (<kbd>Ctrl+U</kbd>) now allows choosing a module declaration (if multiple)

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5333 -->
* Fix `#[cfg()]` attributes support. Ignore `impl`'s from disabled submodules

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5320 -->
* Improve`"complete current statement` (<kbd>Ctrl+Shift+Enter</kbd>) action:
  * don't add new line after `;` completion
  * insert empty line on empty line

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5317 -->
* `Implement Members` and `Generate Construct` actions now take into account all trait bounds of trait object types

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5312 -->
* Omit unchanged default type parameters of parameters by `Extract Function` refactoring (by [@Kobzol])

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5296 -->

> * Fix `find usages` action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix `Find Usages` action:
```

  * take into account files added to the project by `include!()` macro
  * correctly find reference to `pub(crate)` items declared in crate root

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5293 -->
* Fix the [issue](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/IDEA-238958) with non-rust directory renaming.
  Previously, the plugin sometimes broke "Rename" refactoring applied to a directory in non-rust projects.

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5292 -->
* Fix the [issue](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/5285)

>   with `Surround With Unsafe Block` quick fix (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  with `Surround with unsafe block` quick fix (by [@Kobzol])
```

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5261 -->
* Properly do `Invalidate caches & Restart` action

<!-- https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/5155 -->

> * Fix "Use of moved value" [false-positive](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/5013) error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix `Use of moved value` [false-positive](https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/issues/5013) error
```
